W-12990534 MQ consolidate overview and terminology (#139)
mulesoft/docs-mq: modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc

use a message exchange to publish a single message to multiple queues for each app.

A _binding_ is a relationship between the queue and message exchange that tells the message exchange where to send messages.
By configuring _intelligent message-routing rules_ on a binding, you can route messages to specific queues that are bound to the message exchange.

* You can bind a queue to multiple message exchanges.
* {empty}
// Max Msg Exchange 
include::partial$mq-msg-exchange.adoc[tag=msgExchangeMax]
* {empty}
include::partial$mq-msg-exchange.adoc[tag=msgExchangeMaxRouting]

In this example, an app running Salesforce customer relationship manager (CRM) uses Anypoint MQ to 
communicate with two applications that handle different databases:

image::mq-crm-to-dbs.png["CRM sends a message to Anypoint MQ that apps receive"]

The Salesforce app sends a pub/sub message to an Anypoint MQ message exchange (`customer-updates`).
The two applications (`customer-consumer-1` and `customer-consumer-2`) receive the message from 
the message exchange and send it to their respective databases.

[[queue-benefits]]
=== Benefits of Queues

Queues provide these benefits:

* Horizontal scalability
+

> By putting a message on a queue, the work to process that message can be distributed over multiple subscribers.

Reviewer: I didn't notice this before, but should this be "in a queue" instead of "on a queue"?

* Reliability
+
Queues ensure that messages are always processed, even in the case of failure.
+
Anypoint MQ provides reliability with queues by using a lock and acknowledge mechanism.
These features ensure that a message is always processed, even in the case of failure.
+
* Decoupling
+
You can use a queue as a communication mechanism between different applications and devices,
enabling them to have different development life cycles or maintenance windows without affecting other applications.
* Aggregation
+
Multiple message producers can publish to a single queue, which enables easy consumption by consumers.
+

> The message-consumption process is:

Reviewer: Suggestions to avoid passive:

In the message-consumption process:
or
The message-consumption process works as follows:

Author: I don't think that's passive.

= Anypoint MQ Overview
:page-aliases: mq-understanding.adoc

Anypoint MQ is a multi-tenant, cloud-based message queuing service for exchanging data asynchronously between your applications. 
The Anypoint MQ messaging broker enables applications to communicate by publishing a Mule message to a queue so that another app can consume the message.

> Anypoint MQ is fully integrated with Anypoint Platform and provides the same management capabilities.

Reviewer 2: I think "same management capabilities" doesn't explain what capabilities it provides. Can we keep the existing content "offering role-based access control, client management, and connectors." ?

Author: Yes

Integration with access management enables you to specify environments and business groups for 
role-based access control and support for connected apps.

Anypoint MQ supports hybrid use cases, IoT (Internet of Things) in which you collect data from different devices,
and a REST API to use with device applications.
You can also use Anypoint MQ with other app frameworks such as node.js to communicate with queues.

The following spotlight video gives an overview of Anypoint MQ:

++++
include::_partials/mq-overview-video.html[]
++++

Anypoint MQ:

* Provides fully hosted and managed xref:mq-queues.adoc[queues] and xref:mq-exchanges[message exchanges] in the cloud.
* Supports large payloads, encryption, queuing, and publish/subscribe (pub/sub) paradigms.
* Enables you to easily connect to non-Mule applications using the REST API.
* Provides Anypoint Studio access, which makes the process of leveraging your queues and message exchanges as simple as drag, drop, and configure.

== Before You Begin Using Anypoint MQ

> * Obtain an Enterprise subscription.

Reviewer 2: Should we add this to the "Getting Started" page as well? We get this question a lot from internal teams, why Anypoint MQ doesn't show up on the platform UI for them.

Author: Yes.

= Anypoint MQ Overview
:page-aliases: mq-understanding.adoc

Anypoint MQ is a multi-tenant, cloud-based message queuing service for exchanging data asynchronously between your applications. 
The Anypoint MQ messaging broker enables applications to communicate by publishing a Mule message to a queue so that another app can consume the message.

Anypoint MQ is fully integrated with Anypoint Platform, offering access control, client management, and connectors.
Integration with access management enables you to specify environments and business groups for 
role-based access control and support for connected apps.

> Anypoint MQ supports hybrid use cases, IoT (Internet of Things) in which you collect data from different devices,

Reviewer: I wouldn't say that Anypoint MQ "supports" a REST API. It has a REST API.

and a REST API to use with device applications.
You can also use Anypoint MQ with other app frameworks such as node.js to communicate with queues.

The following spotlight video gives an overview of Anypoint MQ:

++++
include::_partials/mq-overview-video.html[]
++++

Anypoint MQ:

* Provides fully hosted and managed xref:mq-queues.adoc[queues] and xref:mq-exchanges[message exchanges] in the cloud.
* Supports large payloads, encryption, queuing, and publish/subscribe (pub/sub) paradigms.

> * Enables you to easily connect to non-Mule applications using the REST API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Enables you to easily connect to non-Mule applications by using the REST API.
```

* Provides Anypoint Studio access, which makes the process of leveraging your queues and message exchanges as simple as drag, drop, and configure.

== Before You Begin Using Anypoint MQ

* Contact your Account Team to obtain an Enterprise subscription and activate Anypoint MQ.
+ 
After adding an Enterprise subscription, wait one hour for Anypoint MQ to become available. 
* Set up your environment and permissions.
+
For information, see xref:mq-access-management.adoc[].
* Review this overview for information about Anypoint MQ.

== Anypoint MQ Features

> Anypoint MQ includes these features:

Reviewer: Can you make these descriptions parallel?

Queues and Message Exchanges::
Send messages to queues and pull messages from queues.
Use a message exchange to send messages to multiple standard queues simultaneously or 

> route messages to specific queues using intelligent message routing rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
route messages to specific queues by using intelligent message routing rules.
```

+
For information, see:

> 

Reviewer: Should this also refer to the Queues and Message Exchanges section in this topic?

* xref:mq-queues.adoc[]
* xref:mq-exchanges.adoc[]
* xref:mq-routing-rules.adoc[]
Management Console::

> Monitor queue statistics, purge queues, and see how many messages are in flight using the management console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Monitor queue statistics, purge queues, and see how many messages are in flight by using the management console.
```

Anypoint MQ Connector::
Send and receive messages from any Mule app, whether it's deployed in CloudHub or used in a hybrid scenario and deployed on-premises.
+
For information, see xref:mq-connectors.adoc[].
Usage Information::

> Organization administrators or owners can view the current and past months' usage, including the total number of messages and API requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Organization administrators and owners can view the current and past months' usage, including the total number of messages and API requests.
```

Access this information from the *Access Management* page.
+
For information, see xref:mq-usage.adoc[].
REST API::
Use the REST API to easily communicate with non-Mule applications.
+
For information, see xref:mq-apis.adoc[].
Environments and Role-Based Access Control::
Anypoint MQ is fully integrated with Anypoint Platform access management, enabling you to specify different environments for your queues, who can access each environment, and what they can do within each environment.
+
For information, see xref:mq-access-management.adoc[].
Client Management::

> Use connected apps to authenticate with Anypoint Platform using APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use connected apps to authenticate with Anypoint Platform by using APIs.
```

+

> Register each consumer registered as a connected app with a name, ID, and a secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Register each consumer registered as a connected app with a name, ID, and secret.
```

The connected app uses the ID and secret to authenticate and get access to queues and message exchanges within a single environment.
You cannot use connected apps across multiple environments or business groups.
+
For information, see xref:mq-connected-apps.adoc[].
Large Payloads::
Anypoint MQ supports payloads up to 10 MB.
// MQ Payload Conversion
include::partial$mq-big-payload.adoc[tag=mqPayloadConvert]

[[disaster-recovery]]
Disaster Recovery::

> Within each region, Anypoint MQ services deploy to multiple availability zones (AZs) to provide high availability (HA). If service in one availability zone goes down, the Anypoint MQ service operates normally in that region. If all availability zones go down in a region, the Anypoint MQ service is unavailable in that region until at least one of the availability zones comes back up. Because the storage solution for Anypoint MQ is durable, messages that were already in the Anypoint MQ system before service was interrupted are retained.

Reviewer: What does "durable" mean here? Maybe you can use a different text to explain this or just remove the text. I think that it is enough to say "Messages that were already in Anypoint MQ system..."

[[usage-statistics]]
Usage Statistics::

> View usage statistics so that you can manage peak usage and subscription parameters.

Reviewer: View a usage statistics chart...

The second sentence mentions "The chart" but it is it is not referenced here.

The chart provides current and past usage, including consumed data, API requests, and the total number of messages received.
+
For information, see xref:mq-usage.adoc[].
+
You can also use the Anypoint MQ Stats API to perform statistical analysis of queue performance.
+
For information, see xref:mq-apis.adoc#mqstatapi[Anypoint MQ Stats API].
+
[NOTE]

> Anypoint MQ does not support use with CloudHub Insight or Anypoint Monitoring.

Reviewer: Awkward wording. 
Maybe: Anypoint MQ cannot be used with...

[[queues-and-exchanges]]
== Queues and Message Exchanges

_Message queues_ provide temporary storage that enables applications to communicate in a scalable and reliable way.
Publishers can publish messages into queues, and subscribers can receive messages from queues. 

image::mq-pub-q-sub.png[Anypoint MQ publisher, queue, and subscriber]

To distribute messages to multiple queues and consumers, bind multiple queues to a _message exchange_.

> Messages sent to an exchange appear in all its bound queues simultaneously:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Messages sent to an exchange appear in all of its bound queues simultaneously:
```

image::mq-pub-ex-sub.png["Message exchange distributing a message to multiple consumers"]

> For example, if a publisher publishes changes in the weather, and multiple apps must receive that data,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if a publisher publishes changes in the weather and multiple apps must receive that data,
```

use a message exchange to publish a single message to multiple queues for each app.

> A _binding_ is a relationship between the queue and message exchange, which tells the message exchange where to send messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _binding_ is a relationship between the queue and message exchange that tells the message exchange where to send messages.
```

By configuring _intelligent message-routing rules_ on a binding, you can route messages to specific queues that are bound to the message exchange.

* You can bind a queue to multiple message exchanges.
* {empty}
// Max Msg Exchange 
include::partial$mq-msg-exchange.adoc[tag=msgExchangeMax]
* {empty}
include::partial$mq-msg-exchange.adoc[tag=msgExchangeMaxRouting]

In this example, an app running Salesforce customer relationship manager (CRM) uses Anypoint MQ to 
communicate with two applications that handle different databases:

image::mq-crm-to-dbs.png["CRM sends a message to Anypoint MQ that apps receive"]

> The Salesforce app sends a pub/sub message to an Anypoint MQ message exchange (`customer-updates`),

Reviewer: I suggest breaking up this sentence.

> and the two applications (`customer-consumer-1` and `customer-consumer-2` receive the message from 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the two applications (`customer-consumer-1` and `customer-consumer-2`) receive the message from 
```

the message exchange and send it to their respective databases.

[[queue-benefits]]
=== Benefits of Queues

Queues provide these benefits:

* Horizontal scalability
+
By putting a message on a queue, the work to process that message can be distributed over multiple subscribers.
* Reliability
+
Queues ensure that messages are always processed, even in the case of failure.
+

> Anypoint MQ provides reliability with queues using a lock and acknowledge mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint MQ provides reliability with queues by using a lock and acknowledge mechanism.
```

These features ensure that a message is always processed, even in the case of failure.
+
* Decoupling
+
You can use a queue as a communication mechanism between different applications and devices,

> enabling them to have different development life cycles or maintenance windows, without affecting other applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enabling them to have different development life cycles or maintenance windows without affecting other applications.
```

* Aggregation
+
Multiple message producers can publish to a single queue, which enables easy consumption by consumers.

> +

Reviewer: These steps need a lead-in.

.. A consumer retrieves messages from a queue, which locks the messages and makes the messages invisible to all other consumers.
.. When retrieving, the consumer specifies a lock timeout. If the message is not processed within the specified window,
Anypoint MQ makes the message visible to other consumers.
If a failure occurs, such as a consumer node crash, another node can process the message.
A locked message does not block other messages from being read.
+
If a consumer processes a message successfully, the client acknowledges the message, and Anypoint MQ removes the message from the queue.
+
For information, see xref:anypoint-mq-connector::anypoint-mq-ack.adoc[ACK and NACK Operations].
+
If a consumer is not able to process a message, the message proceeds with a negative acknowledgment and becomes visible in the queue again.

* Unlimited messages in a queue
+
Anypoint MQ doesn't limit the number of messages in a queue.
Each message in a queue is limited to 10 MB. 
* Long polling
+
Messages are read through long polling. The server holds a request open until new data is available, and then Anypoint MQ delivers a batch of messages with a single read.

* Billing and charging
+

> Billing is based on the number of messages delivered to subscribers from queues, not the number of queues or message exchanges you create.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Billing is based on the number of messages delivered to subscribers from queues, instead of on the number of queues or message exchanges you create.
```

Reviewer: or "and not on the number of queues..."

[[mq-glossary]]

> == Anypoint MQ Glossary

Reviewer: Can you make these descriptions parallel?

> == Anypoint MQ Glossary

Reviewer: Consider having this be a separate topic. The topic is long and the long glossary breaks it up.

> ACK/NACK::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ACK/NACK operations::
```

+
--

> * ACK - An app receives a message and Anypoint MQ deletes the message. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ACK operation - An app receives a message and Anypoint MQ deletes the message. 
```

> * NACK - An app does not receive a message and Anypoint MQ does not delete the message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* NACK operation - An app does not receive a message and Anypoint MQ does not delete the message.
```

--
+
For information, see xref:anypoint-mq-connector::anypoint-mq-ack.adoc[ACK and NACK Operations].
Binding::
+
Enables pub/sub apps to bridge the simple pub/sub structure and use point-to-point features, such as sending a message to specific applications.
Bindings identify which queues form a message exchange.
In Anypoint Platform, by specifying which message queues are bound to a message exchange, Anypoint MQ creates and manages the bindings for you.
+
For information, see xref:mq-exchanges.adoc[].

[[dead-letter-queues]]
Dead Letter Queue (DLQ)::
A queue that stores undeliverable messages from other queues.
+
For information, see xref:mq-queues.adoc#dead-letter-queues[Dead Letter Queues].

[message-lock-ttl]
Default Acknowledgement Timeout::

> How long a message remains unacknowledged before being returned to the queue: for example, in the event of server failure or when flow processing takes too long and times out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How long a message remains unacknowledged before being returned to the queue, for example, if a server fails or if flow processing takes too long and times out.
```

Reviewer: Or break this up into two sentences.
For example, ...

[[delay-queues]]
Delay Queues::
+
With delay queues, you can postpone the delivery of new messages to a queue for a specified period.
Consumers can't see messages sent to a delay queue for the duration of the delay period.
The minimum delay for a queue is 0 seconds. The maximum is 15 minutes.
+ 
If you change the queue delay for a:
+
--
** Standard queue, the setting change doesn't affect messages in the queue.
** FIFO queue, the setting change is retroactive to all messages in the queue.
--
+
You can override the default queue delay for a particular message in a standard queue only.

[[delay-messages]]
Delayed Message Delivery::
+

> For messages in a standard queue, you can postpone the delivery of a particular message to the queue for a specified period. Consumers can't see messages sent with delivery delay for the duration of the delay period.

Reviewer: Kind of a subtle, but I would make the sentence that starts with "Consumers can't see messages sent with delivery delay..." singular because Delayed Message Delivery applies to an individual message. This wording would help to distinguish Delayed Message Delivery from Delay Queues.

The minimum delivery delay for a message is 0 seconds.
The maximum is 15 minutes.
+ 
Delayed delivery is not supported for individual messages in a FIFO queue.
Destination::

> A message exchange or queue. Applications register to a destination and publish messages to the destination. Applications subscribe to a destination to receive a message. Anypoint MQ lets you configure Destinations by creating or maintaining queues or message exchanges.

Reviewer: Destination > destination 
in the description?

> A message exchange or queue. Applications register to a destination and publish messages to the destination. Applications subscribe to a destination to receive a message. Anypoint MQ lets you configure Destinations by creating or maintaining queues or message exchanges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A message exchange or queue. Applications register to a destination and publish messages to that destination. Applications subscribe to a destination to receive a message. Anypoint MQ lets you configure destinations by creating or maintaining queues or message exchanges.
```

You configure destinations in Anypoint Studio using Anypoint MQ Connector.
Durable message::

> A message that persists until its indicated client receives it.

Reviewer: indicated > target

Duration::

> Messages can persist in flight for up to 2 weeks after which messages older than 2 weeks are deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Messages can persist in flight for up to two weeks, after which they are deleted.
```

[[encrypt-queue]]
Encrypted Queues::
+

> Messages in queues data can optionally be encrypted, enabling companies to be compliant with their data at rest policies. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Messages in queues data can optionally be encrypted, enabling companies to comply with their data at rest policies. 
```

//Shared Encryption
include::partial$mq-faq.adoc[tag=faqEncryption]
+
include::partial$mq-faq.adoc[tag=faqEncryptionQandEx]

[[fifo-queues]]
FIFO Queues::
+

> For applications where the order of messages must be strictly preserved and enforced, Anypoint MQ provides first-in, first-out (FIFO) processing to ensure message ordering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For applications in which the order of messages must be strictly preserved and enforced, Anypoint MQ provides first-in, first-out (FIFO) processing to ensure message ordering.
```

+
For information, see xref:mq-queues.adoc#fifo-queues[FIFO Queues].

In Flight::
Messages that are: 
+

> --

Reviewer: Are these list options "ands" or "ors"? This should be more clear in the lead-in.

* Received by a queue, but not deleted
* Awaiting acknowledgment (ACK) or not acknowledgment (NACK)
* Not returned to the queue due to an expired *Default Acknowledgement Timeout* (time-to-live) setting
--
+
In-flight messages are not visible to other consumers. 
+
Anypoint MQ supports up to 120,000 in-flight messages per queue for standard (non-FIFO) queues.
FIFO queues can have up to 10 in-flight messages in each message group.

In Queue::
Messages that have been sent.
+

> Anypoint MQ supports unlimited messages in queue for both standard and FIFO queues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint MQ supports unlimited messages in both standard and FIFO queues.
```

Author: This changes the meaning. The unlimited is specifically "in queue".

Lock ID::
A lock that allows only a single app to read a queue.
Anypoint MQ provides the lock when an app acknowledges a message from a queue.
Message::

> Serializable xref:mule-runtime::about-mule-message.adoc[Mule Message] content that applications send and receive so that the applications can communicate with each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Serializable xref:mule-runtime::about-mule-message.adoc[Mule Message] content that applications send and receive so that they can communicate with each other.
```

Message Exchange::
A pub/sub message source with multiple outputs. Applications register to subscribe to messages that the message exchange publishes.
+
For information, see xref:mq-exchanges.adoc[].
[[message-groups]]
Message Groups::
+

> With FIFO queues, you can enable multiple consumers to process messages from a single FIFO queue by assigning messages to a message group.

Reviewer: Do you need "With FIFO queues"?

Author: I think so. Message groups are only in FIFO queues. But I'll see if I can streamline.

+
For information, see xref:mq-queues.adoc#fifo-queues-msg-groups[FIFO Queues and Message Groups].
Message-Routing Rules::
Rules that you configure on a message exchange binding to route a subset of the messages published to an exchange to a specific queue.
On-premises::
Mule runtime that runs on a computer in your organization.
Payload::
The message content, which can be text, JSON, or CSV (comma-separated values).
Point-to-Point::
A pattern that allows an app to send a message that only a single app can receive.
Pub/Sub (Publish/Subscribe)::
A pattern that distributes messages to multiple consumers.
Publisher::
An app that sends messages to Anypoint MQ.
Queue::
A point-to-point message storage area that holds a message that a client receives.
+
For information, see xref:mq-queues.adoc[].
Subscriber::
An app that receives messages from Anypoint MQ.
[[message-ttl]]
TTL (time-to-live)::
+
Each queue has a message time-to-live (TTL).
TTL specifies how long the message is in the queue before Anypoint MQ expires the message and removes it from the queue.
+
include::partial$mq-ttl.adoc[tag=msgTTLchange]

[[mq-in-govcloud]]

> == Anypoint MQ in MuleSoft Government Cloud

Reviewer: If this is something you are working on now, can you rewrite the bullet items to not repeat "are not supported"? The first sentence in this section conveys that the section lists unsupported features so the repetition is not necessary.

Author: I had it that way in the original version but the dev felt it wasn't clear (I guess if you glossed over the intro, the text would read the opposite of what we want).
